hi my names Herbie Fletcher and I just
got out of the water to watch rebel TV
in California surfing inspires a lot of
people to create music and in no other
sport is music so influential no matter
what era or what style there is no other
sport that has ever invented its own
music in addition to 100 years of
California beach culture we want to give
you a closer look at the surf music from
California and the journey of these
parallel phenomenons mentioning surfing
and music in the same sentence conjured
up images of the early 60s Danny a bar
co-writer of the Hollywood surf film big
Wednesday who has seen surfed and played
at all is a keeper of the flame of
Allmusic that swept along the beach you
know music is a reflection of the times
before the Beach Boys we dig day on the
dale tones that did like the pipeline
and wipe out all those kind of they were
supposed to a book that smooths of
surfing now but they really didn't serve
you know when I grew up in Huntington
the Golden Bear was a little rock and
roll blues place across the street but
there you know Janis Joplin would come
there and all these people come there
they come over to the beach and hang out
through the hippie era you know usually
got louder you know and more amps and
more Spacey stuff and they'll kind of
back to our band farm just some kind of
spacey stuff it was part of the time you
know the hippie era is will the light
shows and craziness you know the 70s
Nick things mellow it out you know some
people went acoustic well spoke singing
so most artists have this fascination to
watch surfing because it's just like a
moving dance you know you're riding on
this way of dancing and so beach culture
swept over two musicians like Ben Harper
but also vice versa to people like Jack
Johnson who had a metamorphosis from a
surfer to international music eid liner
ticket a little bit back atop the water
you just subconsciously start singing a
melody and your circle it just sort of
goes with it the rhythm and so I came
with a lot of the songs out there
pass me a drinka made that whatever was
going on at the time everybody just
absorbed it and Donovan Frankenreiter
one of the most acclaimed free surface
in the world just picked up a guitar to
master riding a different sort of wave
it's like music when you hear it you can
feel it and it's the same thing with
surfing you hear all these different
sounds and these different things happen
and so many emotions go through you when
you serve
music is universal it speaks everybody
you know more even more so than surfing
does you can't have a surf movie without
music you know you can have music
without a surf without surfing but you
can't have it the other way around so
Kelly himself experienced the music
business in the 90s with pro surfers
Peter Mel and Rob Machado in a band
called the surfers proving that rock
included short board surfing to
yeah the surfers was fun it was kind of
crazy because at the time Kelly just
beat me for a world title and you know
we were friends but we're kind of really
competitive but we're in the same band
together and it was really hard we're
traveling around the world our main
focus is surfing pro surfing so all of a
sudden be like oh we have to go to this
tour you know for music and we're going
to go for two weeks and tour of these
places and I was like wow that's kind of
a lot Alex coast was able to close that
gap his innovative style and
longboarding next to his life as an
artist and musician transcended his
vision into a lifestyle
I like the culture that comes along with
surfing not just the idea of a wave
breaking you know when things are
totally perfect they're kind of boring I
to me i like i like the imperfection i
like following him surfing and our music
you know sometimes like a guitars out of
tune or something I think that's cool
people have been perfecting things for
so long that I think they forgot to look
at like the imperfections of something
that's important or interesting with Tom
Curren one of the era's most influential
surf stars the music surf connection no
longer seemed merely academic it was all
hands on surfing is really a phenomenon
in subculture it has its own music its
own feeling and lifestyle it has its own
fashion its own kind of creativity and
art speaking of which we'll have a
closer look at in our next show till
then see you and enjoy the waves
Oh
Shh